Before targeted reading and contrast to other ideas, I'll first build a draft of what I think are coherent ways to think about genes. 

The word "gene" is subdefined, and rarely used with clarity, so I am not trying to define "gene" as what people think,
but to distill from the vague natural language descriptions, definitions that are as "pure" as possible.

My "pure", I mean that are not reasonably split into 2 or more explicit definitions of entities identifiable in the real world (or classes, metaclasses etc 
of entities identifiable in te real world. 

In other words, just trying to make it possible to be more precise than we currently can. 

* Gene (A) as anything called "gene" in the context of life sciences

The different genes:

* Gene (P) as "whatever is genetically inherited and gives rise to a trait"

P stands for phenotype. 

Pre-DNA ideas of genes. In the likes of Mendelian "factors". 

* Gene (M) as "a specific sequence of nucleic acid with particular features"

M stands for molecule. Molecular biology concepts, which are themselves quite mixed. 

Some things in the mix:

 - Gene (M1)  as a class of particular parts of a particular molecule of DNA or RNA in the physical world (M8) that are expected to act as genes (P). Ex:
     - The human genome has 20.000 genes (M1) . 
     
 The individual genes in the real-world. 

 - Gene (M2) as a superclass of Gene (M1) that share a very similar sequence within a unit of evolution (often a species). Ex:
     -  human _TP53_ gene
     
   These are types of gene (M1), and used to label individual genes in the real world. 

 - Gene (M3) as a superclass of Gene (M1) that share a very similar sequence across species. Ex:
     -  mammalian  IL2 gene (a "mammalian-specific gene") 
     
 - Gene (MP4) as a particular part of a particular molecule of DNA or RNA in the physical world (M8), its products and impacts on an organism. Ex:
    - The tetR gene ((MP4) (i.e. sequence of nucleotides (M8) of the class "tetR" (M2) and, logically, of the class "gene" (M1)) promoted resistance to tetracycline 
    in the single bacterium that gave rise to a colony of its clones. 
   
 - Gene (MP5) as a class of MP4. Ex:
    - The gene (M2) tetR promotes resistance to tetracycline in bacteria
    
 - Gene sequence (M6) as a particular sequence of DNA or RNA originated from one (or a set of) identical genes (M1),
 represented in a piece of paper or in a computer: 
    - There is a base-change in the _TP53_ gene sequence (M6) obtained from my DNA sample in relation to the reference genome's _TP53_ gene.  
    
 - Gene sequence (M7) as a fictional sequence of DNA or RNA that is purportedly representative of all gene sequences (M6) of a set of individuals.
    - Th  _HG_ gene sequences (M7) is 98% similar to the chimp _CG_ gene sequences (M7). (fictional gene names)    

 -  Gene sequence (M8) as the actual order of nucleotides in a gene (M1):
    - That gene sequence was changed after the Cas9 protein molecule located and edited the gene (M1) in the embryo that gave
    rise to the first CRISPR-altered human being
 
When we do single-molecule sequencing, we use the computational gene sequence (M6) to infer what was the molecular gene sequence (M8) of a single gene. 

 - Gene sequence (M9) as a fictional sequence representative of gene sequences (M8) of a set of individuals.
   - There is a G24914C mutation in the sequence (M9) of the spike gene (M2) in the strain B.1.1.7 strain in comparison to the gene sequence (M9) of the other strains.
This mutation causes the gene (MP5) to bind differently to ACE2.   

A gene sequence (M9) is an idealized representative of a gene sequence (M8) for many similar organisms. 
It has relations to evolution: 
a "genetic mutation" is a change in a gene sequence (M8) that survives selection and gets fixed in a population. When we sequence many genes (M1), we 
get representations (M6) of their gene sequences (M8). 
If a pattern is detected in the representations (M6), we call a short part of 
the sequence a novel "variant" of the gene. 

Ex: a change in the _Homo erectus_  _XYZ_ gene sequence (M9) altered the course of human evolution

When we talk about the "sequence of the gene variant" we are usually talking about a gene sequence representation (M6) of the sequences (M8) 

- A "variant" (M10) as part of a gene sequence (M7) and a class of (M6). 
  - The G24914C variant (M10) of the spike gene (M2) is being seen in the gene sequences (M6) obtained by laboratories across England.  

Meaning "a written sequence (M6) that contains the character representing "X1" where we would expect the character representing "X0" ". 

- A "variant" (M11) as part of a gene sequence (M9) and a class of (M8). 
  - The G24914C variant (M11) of the spike gene (M2) is spreading across England.
  
Meaning "a molecular sequence (M8) that contains "X1" where we would expect "X0" ". 

I am still not sure if M9 is a class of M8. 

- An allele (M12) as a subclass of gene (M1). The synonym, though, is used in particular contexts. Often used for different genes (M1) that are
idenfiable to the same "class of genes" (M2).
  - We edited the sequence (M8) of the recessive allele (M12) in this single cell 

- An allele (M13) as a class of alleles (M12) that share some characteristic, usually meaning that they output identical gene sequences (M6).
  - The Ashkenazi population has a high prevalence of this allele (M13)

Note: There are no 2 identical gene sequences (M8), as they are physical objects, and classically one object  cannot be at 2 places at the same time. 
There are identical gene sequences (M6), though, as they are only representations of the physical world. 

When we say "this cell has a dominant and a recessive allele (M13) of the gene _XYZ_ (M2)", we are saying we believe that 
there are 2 genes (M1) in this cell, each with a different gene sequence (M8), and that they are from 2 different alleles (M13), 
which are classes of alleles (M12).

All real-world molecules that are alleles (M12) are also genes (M1). If a gene (M1) is called "allele" 
or depends on wheter one would identify it to an "allele". They are different pointers to the same individuals, so to speak. 

Now a framework (with a thought experiment):


A single spermatozoon is isolated in a petri dish. His name is "Carl". 

Carl has genetic powers. 

Carl has chromosomes, which are big DNA molecules. 

Somewhere on its chromosome 17, lies a sequence of nucleotides (M8). 

This sequence is not just any sequence: it has special features that make people call it by special names. 

That specific sequence (M8) at Carl's chromosome 17 is part of a group of other  specific sequences (M8) that we call "genes" (M1). 

In the past decades, humans have said that sequences (M8) that have other special features are called by an even more particular name. 

They call it a _TP53_ gene, a gene, but with particular powers.


So now we have the following system: 

A sequence (M8) is class of a particular parts of particular molecules of DNA or RNA in the physical world 
Our sequence (M8) of interest (say SOI1) is an instance of a sequence (M8) 

A gene (M1) is a subclass of sequences (M8) with gene-like features. 
Our sequence (M8) of interest (say SOI1) is an instance of a gene (M1)

SOI1 is a part of Carl's Chromosome 17
Carl's Chromosome 17 is a part of Carl
Carl is an instance of spermatozoon
A spermatozoon is a type of cell 
Carl is an instance of a cell 

A "TP53 gene" is a subclass of gene (M1) used for sequences (M8) with TP53-like features. 
All sequences (M8) that are of the class "TP53 gene" are also of the class gene (M1)

SOI1 is an instance of a TP53 gene (M1)
A gene (M1) is a subclass of gene (M2)
SOI1 is an instance of a gene (M1)




Damn this is hard and I an getting confused. I need to draw it. 





